# Natural-Language-Processing-Using-Python

what is NLP? And what are the benefits of learning NLP?

Put simply, natural language processing (NLP) is about developing applications and services that are able to understand human languages.

We are talking here about practical examples of natural language processing (NLP) like speech recognition, speech translation, understanding complete sentences, understanding synonyms of matching words, and writing complete grammatically correct sentences and paragraphs.

Benefits of NLP
As all of you know, millions of gigabytes every day are generated by blogs, social websites, and web pages.

There are many companies gathering all of this data to better understand users and their passions and make appropriate changes.

These data could show that the people of Brazil are happy with product A, while the people of the US are happier with product B. With NLP, this knowledge can be found instantly (i.e. a real-time result). For example, search engines are a type of NLP that give the appropriate results to the right people at the right time.

But search engines are not the only implementation of natural language processing (NLP). There are a lot of even more awesome implementations out there.

NLP Implementations
These are some successful implementations of natural language processing (NLP):

Search engines like Google, Yahoo, etc. Google's search engine understands that you are a tech guy, so it shows you results related to that.
Social website feeds like your Facebook news feed. The news feed algorithm understands your interests using natural language processing and shows you related ads and posts more likely than other posts.
Speech engines like Apple Siri.
Spam filters like Google spam filters. It's not just about your usual spam filtering; now, spam filters understand what's inside the email content and see if it's spam or not.
NLP Libraries
There are many open source Natural Language Processing (NLP) libraries. These are some of them:

Natural language toolkit (NLTK)
Apache OpenNLP
Stanford NLP suite
Gate NLP library
